The design of our MakeHaven Volunteer Community Interface centers around three central values: motivation, organization, and communication.

First, motivation. We design the home page to be visually appealing, attracting users to come back to the site. We display darkened MakeHaven images in an automatic carousel. A personalized welcome message, an inspirational quote, a reminder of upcoming task(s) greet the users. The whole design dynamically fits whatever screen-size the users view from, so there's no need to scroll down to view the texts, making the texts immediate. As the carousel rolls to the next slide, a Suggested Task of the Day appears along with another inspirational quote. After viewing details of the task displayed there, users can directly sign up for the suggested task of the day then and there, giving them one more opportunity to volunteer. Upcoming task reminder and Suggested Task of the Day alternate, along with more full-screen photos of MakeHaven community, motivating the users to contribute.
In addition to the elegant design of the home page, users also have the option to add, directly in the User Info page, the tasks they signed up to the calendar of their choice--whether it be Google, iCal, or Outlook, or more. This reminder system, along with the upcoming task reminder on the home page, helps motivate the users to complete the tasks they signed up. Furthermore, completion of each task adds the respective Task Score to users' credit, which are displayed in ranking. The friendly competition further motivates users to accomplish their tasks.

Second, organization. We design the whole interface to have organized information. To start off, on All Tasks page, there is a Filter By function that allows users to filter the tasks according to their preference. The users could choose to filter by Start Date, Task Score, and Task Duration. Additionally, the Task List is displayed in a way where the available tasks appear prior to claimed tasks, so that the users can view the available tasks first and sign up accordingly, but can still get a sense of what other (claimed) tasks are there. Note that available tasks and claimed tasks are distinguished clearly with the two styles of the sign up buttons. Once users sign up for a task, they are automatically directed to User Info page, where they can view a table of the tasks they signed up and related details. They can view their account information (including username, first and last name) and change any of the information, along with password, as needed. When users want to check in tasks, they also get an organized display of the tasks they signed up on Check In page, and a dropdown menu of all the tasks they signed up. Finally, to better organize tasks for admins, any task with a recurrence cycle number, x, will be automatically repeated and displayed after it is checked in, with the start date of the new task in x days. The default of recurrence cycle is N/A, and tasks with the default recurrence cycle will not be repeated once checked in.

Third, communication. We design the interface to assist in more efficient transmission of information among volunteers and administrators. On the All Tasks page where users sign up for tasks, the admin can post any instructional videos they want the users to see before signing up for tasks. In addition, the online forum allows members of MakeHaven community to communicate information with each other in a timely manner. Users can submit their username and message in a form under Message Board. They will not be able to post messages under other volunteers' username. Once submitted, their comments await approval by the admin. On homepage, the admin will be notified of outstanding messages to be reviewed upon logging in. If the admin chooses to approve the comment, the comment will appear on the message board. If the admin chooses to delete the comment, the comment will not appear on the message board. This regulation servers to prevent spam. Admin could also post admin notifications, which will be displayed above all user comments on the forum.

Overall, the whole interface emphasizes elegant, user-friendly navigation and functionalities. With both visually pleasant design and useful functions, the interface integrates with the greater MakeHaven online presence, helping to build a more dedicated volunteer community.
